[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast I sat down and spoke with Nathan
Windsor the co-founder of Landslide
Landslide is a new IBC enabled Avalanche
subnet that enables any kmm based dap to
run natively on the Avalanche Network in
this conversation we touched upon the OG
status that Nathan has in both the
cosmos and Avalanche ecosystems the
differences between both Avalanche and
Cosmos at a protocol level the security
that can be levered by building in
between and on top of the two the role
and need for permissioned and and
permissionless blockchain networks and
so much more just a reminder nothing
said on this podcast is a solicitation
to buy or sell any tokens and that
nothing should be taken as Financial
advice head over to
www.newsday.com to see a disclaimer on
the tokens that might have been
discussed in each episode with all that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
Nathan and I hope you enjoyed the
conversation too hey everyone welcome to
the smart economy podcast today we're
joined by Nathan Windsor the co-founder
of landslide how you doing today Nathan
I'm stoked thank you for your time I'm
I'm happy to be here Dyan yeah I'm
really excited this is going to be a
super fun uh conversation that I had a
lot of fun just kind of preparing for
because the Two Worlds that you're
building in um are just pretty awesome
and have longevity in the broader
blockchain space but before we kind of
jump down the rabbit hole of who you are
and what you're building and why I kind
of want to get like a higher
philosophical question from you and I
want to kick off this conversation by
asking you how does defi become more
resilient by connecting different
blockchain ecosystems great question sir
okay so so D5 becomes more D5 becomes
more resilient and people won't like
this but it has to become compliant uh
and it and as we're seeing from the US
that is a serious threat to defi so like
you know we like to talk about smart
contracts and on the other hand on the
other end of a a smart contract
violation is sometimes jail so like we
there is some there in the community is
Broad so there are some people who
refuse defi there are some people who
are defi like you know maximalists and
then there are some people um who are
kind of in between so like how do you
make it more resilient is number one you
have to do compliance that's going to
eventually come
um and that means kyc um and that means
um on the other hand it also means
coherent legislation uh which the US
just has not put forward any to date um
and then it also means better validation
and more uh Democratic access to uh
validating node services so we have to
be we have to have we have to comply
with the law and once we're complying
with the law we have to make it open so
you you don't want um you know a
centralization of nodes of validator
nodes that's the whole reason that we
got into this in the first place is that
you don't want Banks bailing things out
you want to have decentralized
governance you want to have
decentralized validation um and what
we've seen at Landslide the way that
that we've put that into practice is IBC
which is the most open- Source uh
protocol to bridge assets
and Avalanche which has no hard cap on
its validators cool um that's awesome
thanks for kind of jumping into the deep
end with me um so I I kind of do want to
take like two steps back because I'm a
big fan of folks who have interesting
paths and how they've ended up in the
blockchain space for context I was a
former urban planner and I learned what
a 401k was and then a year later I was
writing about cryptocurrency fulltime so
I'm curious to hear how does somebody
who graduated with a degree in biology
from Cornell end up not even going into
that field and kind of doing something
completely crazy and different once they
graduate by going into the music space
kind of can you share a little bit about
what your initial passion was in biology
and then after you graduated how you
moved into not just being a musician but
also being an entrepreneur in the space
as well yeah um so just for anyone
listening um I've I've listened to a
bunch of show shows that that Dylan's
done and this is like one of his big
questions that he likes to ask guests
and um so you know I commend I commend
you sir for like being interested in in
people's backstories and because I think
it makes this you know stupid Tech world
that we're ranting about um more
relatable and and more sort of
interesting to people and um it gives
people who aren't involved like a way to
access um you know sort of
incomprehensible um so yeah my my
background was I I went to Cornell I
graduated 06 from the biology school I
thought I was um you Midway through I
kind of like like like a lot of people
on the show like I kind of like didn't
want to do this anymore so um I finished
in three years and um graduated and then
uh basically moved into music and so
from 2006 to 2020 I lived in New York
City um most of those years I spent in
in music and music therapy so I worked
in nursing homes like singing to people
in their end stage of life and
transitioning into you know the great
mystery um and you know seeing a lot of
people pass and and helping people in
their end of stage life so I was playing
guitar and singing and piano and drum
circles and stuff which is like way out
on the other end of the brain um and
then like being in New York like it's
sort of the financial center of of the
of a lot of the world and so I got to
see like a lot of is emerging and like
far like so you know the Occupy Wall
Street movement happened and then that
community of people started talking
about crypto um as a method of self-
sovereign Identity or self- Sovereign
like own your own Finance own your
community economy I mean you know the
title of your show is is focused around
you know the economy and like a another
iteration of of economy um and so I
happened to be around in Brooklyn when
all these weirdos were talking about eth
and like Bitcoin and so um like I read
from Bitcoin to Burning Man which was
this like weird PDF like written by you
know like essentially burners connecting
what Bitcoin was to how it relates to
Burning Man and how these sort of small
communities uh can change um ownership
of their digital assets so um yeah and
then um from there I basically joined
the the communities like in Brooklyn I
went to as many meetups as I could I
bought Bitcoin and eth in 2015 and um
and then be basically became um you know
I retrained as a developer in 2012 and
and helped to build and propose um uh
you know I I tried basically early eth
protocols I helped fund some early eth
protocols helped build some and then our
team at Landslide now we've we've been
together since then and um so now we've
sort of you know we were early Avalanche
investors and validators um and so now
we've built uh essentially like a you
know the connection to to IBC because
that's sort of the next stage for us I
think as a as a web 3 Community yeah I
love that I mean Occupy Wall Street for
me was kind of the Genesis for what do I
do next you know I was out of school at
that time and I saw a lot of just
frustration and so actually for me
that's what spurred me to go to graduate
school to study urban planning so that
we could have a positive impact on
cities and the urban infrastructure
hundreds of years after we're gone so
it's really cool to hear that you had
these ties and that occupy kind of uh
awakened you especially when it comes to
the ability to to own your own assets
digital Assets in this case and and you
know occupy taught us that we can't
trust the larger traditional financial
institutions with as much uh blind hope
as maybe we might have so unfortunately
for for the the millennial generation it
was getting another Band-Aid ripped off
and showing that the world isn't as
pretty as as it was told to us as we
were growing up but I think that that's
really cool and so you bought eth you
bought Bitcoin in 2015 and you were a
coder for maybe about three or four
years before you bought these first
digital assets one thing I remember I
got into the space in 2017 and I
remember around 18 is when the cosmos
SDK was coming out and folks were uh
leaving the ecosystem I was covering on
a day-to-day basis the Neo ecosystem we
had one project leave to build a
decentralized uh Exchange in the cosmos
verse so when did you first come across
the cosmos SDK uh the cosmos ecosystem
was it around the same time as Avalanche
um and what made you decide which one to
build in first I guess might be the best
way sure so um so my my background is is
mostly coming from Cornell on this so
Cornell the Cornell blockchain Group
which is where all the Avalanche stuff
comes out of um like early on like in
2016 2017 around around that era the you
know Dr sir like goon everyone calls him
goon now um at who co-founded Ava Labs
along with Kevin sniki and um and Ted
Yin um these these guys early on in
Cornell they were like you know he was a
professor and they were running a a a um
a domain called hacking distributed and
so like as these icos like you mentioned
like that you know there was there was
the adom Ico and the eth Ico and and
hacking distributed led by goon and
Kevin and some other researchers who
would later go on to build like you know
Mev stuff flash Bots Phil Diane being
one of them these guys would you know
were the nerds in the basement that were
just like publishing these blog posts
that like you know maybe we shouldn't
like have delegate get a proof of stake
as a uh validating mechanism because
it's like a beauty pageant contest and
you could bribe people and so they would
have these opinions about um about the
space that they'd publish as academics
that I would read constantly because I
was still involved with the Cornell
community and be like oh these guys are
like Geniuses this is obviously like
they're providing math to to support it
they're providing logic and the the
these people you know um are not
Shilling something that's like vaporware
so then when when when Cosmos happened
jquan who was one of the founders Ethan
Buckman and jquan jquan was a student of
goons um and so they they learned a lot
from you know their implementation of
tenderman was influenced a lot by by
goon and and the work that they were
doing at Cornell you know it's sort of
like Obi-Wan training the other Jedi
it's sort of you know it's like there's
a lot of overlap there um and so yeah
just as a like as a weird sort of side
patch on this tender consensus is the
consensus that's used in Cosmos it's
used um all over the cosmos stack and um
tenderman consensus is
deterministic um and Avalanche consensus
is probabilistic and what that means uh
like Mr Rogers version of this is like
determinism is just like it's always
it's basically you're you're it's like
100% that you know something
deterministically um and
probabilistically is like well it's
probably like you're taking
99.999% sure and so those certainty
tradeoffs have Downstream effects um and
I'll one further thing I'll say about
that because we'll get we'll get into
tendermint versus Avalanche consensus is
that all of these chains that we see eth
Bitcoin all these are about consensus
right it's all about achieving consensus
about what just happened so like did
this team score a goal did this person
send money and so like all of this
politics around and the regulation and
the and the theft all of this stuff that
we see like come out of this as a
conversation is only related to our
ability as sapiens to agree on what just
happened that's it like that's the thing
what what just happened did was it real
and can we verify it that's that's the
game um so that is kind of mind-blowing
to me I didn't realize that there was
such a regional tie to um Cosmos and its
founders with Jay as well as um Cornell
and Avalanche it's such a interesting
kind of regional uh phenomena that you
were quite poised to see the the best
and the worst of Both Worlds to kind of
build in and Bridge them together so I'm
really looking forward to digging in
more I appreciated that you were just
talking about the consensus mechanisms
and for maybe the listener who's not
aware I just want to kind of ask you two
more eli5 highle questions about both of
the different networks so that as we're
talking about them and using phrases and
Concepts and words that maybe the
listener who's first hearing about both
these ecosystems for the first time can
kind of keep up so can you just really
highlevel elevator pitch uh share what
Avalanche is and maybe talk a little bit
about the subnets and then also talk
about the similarities and differences
with Cosmos and the app chains great
okay so um Avalanche unlike a lot of
other chains like salana eth Bitcoin um
Avalanche and Cosmos and polka dot are
all these sort of multi-chain
blockchains it's not a single blockchain
so there's like a bunch of different
things happening um so so Cosmos um has
its hub which is atom and that was like
that was where the initial Ico happened
and that's where a lot of of security is
and that's where a lot of validators are
okay so that's that's the atom Hub and
outside of the atom Hub um there are
like you know a hundred other chains on
Cosmos specifically so and just just so
we understand that means in terms of
money so last month in the last 30 days
there's been uh 2.1 billion dollar in
volume just on Cosmos that is secured by
IBC okay so in 30 days 30 days 2.1
billion in volume and in the last seven
days there's been like 627 million in
IBC volume in the last seven days and
you could see this on map of zones you
just go to you just Google map of zones
and and you'll see the zones each of
these Cosmos chains are are also called
zones and you'll see them interacting
like you know planets and and an EOS so
that's really big news because like IBC
is a TR that means IBC is like a
transformative technology and it also
means like as you secure more and more
money it becomes a national security uh
issue right it becomes a national
security technology it's not just oh
we're bridging you know Meme coins we're
bridging like asset like Sovereign
assets and it could be used for stuff
that's that's permission right like like
Banks want that so
oh I'm come back here so Avalanche is
very similar to Cosmos um in that it has
you can spin up millions of subnets so
the future of avalanche as we know it
will be like basically millions of
subnets um each of them can be secured
by their own validator set and the
reason is because um not everybody in
the world has the mandate to validate
public blockchains and that's just
reality like like Bitcoin maximalists
can have an argument about it but you
know JP Morgan is not going to validate
right now they're not going to Val
blockchains they would rather have an
ETF and have it custody by you know all
the all the all the words you just have
all the financial words that whole chain
of events has to take place but it can
only take place if they run their own
validators if they own relays if they
run their own infrastructure so that can
happen on an Avalanche subnet can also
happen on a cosmo Zone um we see right
now in um in adoption JP Morgan City tro
price um SK Planet a lot of mainstream
institutional um like banks are creating
Avalanche subnets and the reason they're
doing this is because they can control
in an outflow and they can control kyc
so the that's the sort of General
overview of of of avalanche and Cosmos
they're really similar in shape and in
like ideology but they have different
Downstream effects because of their
consensus algorithm yeah thank you so
much it's really cool um if anybody's
been listening to the smart economy
podcast especially since maybe June of
2023 uh a handful of our guests have
kind of dropped Easter eggs that these
Banks and these financial institutions
they've been quietly building over the
past few years and they might not be
releasing press releases or kind of
Shilling the work that they've been
doing in the web 3 space but they have
been here so it's really exciting to
hear that um maybe even you firsthand or
some folks that you know have been
helping these institutions kind of learn
their way around at least subnets when
it comes to Avalanche and I'm sure that
there's more out there that they're
doing that we're not even familiar with
so I'm curious to hear then would you
consider landslide to be more of an
avalanche team kind of masquerading in
the cosmos world or would you be more of
a cosmos team kind of built you know
wearing a cosmos shirt in the Avalanche
world are you kind of like a perfect
meld of both are something completely
different how would you kind of describe
that U great great question um I just
wanted to give a a big shout out to the
Avalanche team as a whole they're um
they've been extraordinarily helpful to
us um Morgan kety um is is their head of
institutional sales um um John Woo as
the head of BD has been great um and
obviously goon Kevin and their technical
team Stephen uh Lucian um Patrick ogrady
the these guys are are pushing um you
know pushing the sort of Razor's Edge of
of where things are in terms of
technical capabilities and um so yeah
like big big shout out to aval laabs um
we we're we're more like of avalanche
friendly folks primarily first um so
like if you imagine in your head like
each of these web 3 ecosystems
communicating with one another we're
like we're like the bridge into and out
of avalanche for IBC specifically um so
that means like as IBC sort of expands
just out of Cosmos like uh you know like
you know fish kind of coming out of the
ocean and and these different ecosystems
communicating with each other there's a
there's an entry point into and out of
avalanche and and we we aim to be that
so I'm curious then because uh earlier
in our conversation you were really
extoling the virtues of IBC as a new
kind of network and one of the
conversations I had um in Washington DC
two weeks ago was you you've touched
upon this as well that these this does
become a national security
issue if you ignore it this is almost
like Banning crypto and blockchain
networks in the US is almost like saying
we don't want to be a part of Swift in
1970 so you are kind of talking about
IBC being this new really powerful kind
of protocol is this on par with what the
next iteration of kind of
InterContinental
intergovernmental is going to be like is
IBC the solution is it part of it uh
where does it kind of fit into this new
paradigm that blockchain networks are
creating where we're going to eradicate
Swift and instead have something uh
completely new bigger better faster and
more accessible great great question
Dylan um that's a long it's a long it's
a long one too so as a whole Swift is
being basically
Sunset people know PE Swift has also
been hacked by state actors right so you
can Google you can take a look that um
I'm not going to name them but you can
you can Google Google who the state
actors are that are that are making the
attacks on Swift um they are people who
are not included in Swift um so there
are obviously economic incentives for
them to destroy it um that being said um
other big uh financial instruments that
we've used to underpin other asset
classes like liore which is the the the
the rate at which banks can lend money
to each other these are also being um
re-evaluated and and they're they're
basically being Sunset as well um I
encourage listeners if you don't know
what liore is it's it's Li R it's it's
the London like it's it's a rate that
seven basically it's a
multisig okay liore is like a multisig
for like 15 Banks and they they measure
how they're going to uh basically lend
money to each other so that that sort of
going on and then
meanwhile China is issuing its own
Central Bank digital currency apparently
Argentina now wants to get onto the US
dollar and also Bitcoin El Salvador is
kind of in that boat um and then you
know when you when you squint back from
these things each Sovereign Nation wants
control over its own money supply um and
um you know Bitcoin in the in the in the
Block in the initial Genesis block said
the reason you know this was the reason
that it was formed which is chancellors
on the brink of bailouts for the second
brink of bailouts and 2008 and so this
is what this is why we're even here
right like so why we're even on this
podcast And discussing this you know
stupidity is is that the the financial
systems have failed over and over and
over and over and over again and that's
because we can't verify their Ledger
that's the thing so if we have more
verifi like a larger verifiable Ledger
that's faster and other people can
participate in that will help solve a
lot of these issues that's why Bitcoin
started right um so that like yeah so
your question is really about uh
National Security and um Banning crypto
outright is a terrible idea because it's
as you said it's like B it's like
Banning us from the Swift protocol in
1970 before this was even a thing it's a
terrible um idea regulation by
enforcement is no one wants this um no
one who understands the tech wants this
and no one who understands the security
implication wants this so what do you do
like you you have to either Lobby people
like black rock is obviously going to
push the Bitcoin ETF and it's going to
go through and then the E ETF will will
happen and then these assets will go
into people's you know retirement funds
um and that's you know the small sort of
exposure into that um what you mentioned
about do we think about like Landslide
Avalanche IBC do we think about these
things in terms of like nation state
adoption or but I mean we hope so the
the the issue is IBC is not a bridge
okay so there's no externally verified
Bridge like a set of validators or like
a concrete bridge from land land to land
there's no Bridge really it's not
technically a bridge it doesn't function
like a bridge and there's no central
point of failure so if you're sending
something over IBC which is processed
about about 4050 billion dollar total
okay nothing comes close chain link
doesn't come close no other Bridge comes
close to what ibc's process so if you're
sending something over IBC and it fails
it will revert right and so the failure
process is a lot more secure it's it
functions like tcpip so there's no
validators who are really validating the
transaction itself people are relaying
information and they're relays but
there's not there's not a third- party
extractive value token in the middle of
IBC okay and that as a
characteristic is more likely to onboard
institutions who want to run their own
relay but don't want to be involved with
thirdparty tokens or third party bridges
that they have to validate or get a
mandate to even hold yeah so then why
why build um kind of these Cosmos zones
in avalanche land is it because having
um like a subnet is much more tangible
to these financial
institutions um why would it be more
appealing to them to kind of Leverage
IBC in Cosmos zones but do it on
Avalanche tech and and that Tech stack
so great question um our bet is on
Avalanche consensus and IBC like as a
tech so in our view the crown jewel of
Cosmos is not anything except for IBC
it's that's like number one the fact
that that that even works like
coherently and has not lost a single
dollar and processed billions of dollars
that's enough for us to be like okay
this is worthwhile to build on um
whether or not other like whether or not
institutions build on it like we have to
build the bridge there and so like a big
shout out to the interchain foundation
who is like the steward of Open Source
software in the cosmos ecosystem because
they funded the open source light client
that connects Cosmos to Avalanche so
even if Landslide disappears or whatever
the light clients between Cosmos and
Avalanche and any other IBC light client
so you know a big shout out to
composable they've built the light
client for polka dot they're working on
salana and they were also working on eth
uh Toki and the data chain team are
working on binance so like IBC is kind
of spreading out and it's spreading out
in these tendrils called light clients
and these light clients are open Source
methods to verify our state changes to
verify The Ledger and these are all open
source so like what what our bet is is
that as IBC goes up against externally
verified Bridges chain link axar uh
layer zero um Wormhole these externally
verified Bridges go up against tcpip and
in the long run it it's a raise to the
bottom and a and a and a bet on security
so yeah and what are these what's the
purpose of the light clients is that
essentially just to communicate the
state between each of the two chains yep
yep you it's also to prevent spoofing
right so each light client has its own
ID so that you that way you're you're
sure like if you're sending something
from Cosmos to Avalanche like a token
you can be sure that the state of your
wallet changes as you send it to another
chain so it's a they have they have just
to just to be clear for the Nerds out
there who are going to come for me is
that there are two layers of on IBC
there's a there's a transport layer
which is transporting the message and
then there's this application layer
which is transporting all the other
logic so token transfers B wallet
balances you know D5 protocol and then
there are the sort of the next stage of
that is like what the intent of that
packet is um so how many folks do you
have at Landslide uh working on is it is
it safe to say it's a bridging solution
or is there's more than just that we're
we're we it's a great question like it
functions like a bridge but it's not a
bridge so we're it's basically like an
interoperability protocol got it how
many folks are on your team um what are
kind of we've got seven people on our
team yeah and do you have like what's
the breakdown like is everybody kind of
a jack of all trades or do you have like
a Avalanche expert and an IBC expert and
great great question everyone is mostly
developers right now so I'm I'm sort of
the Jack of all trades um and our other
developers like our CTO he's like he's
been an expert in he he helped
contribute to evos when OS was the
artist known as etherman in 2018 so he's
an old school Cosmos dude but he's but
he's also very well schooled in in
avalanche um and then we have a you know
a lot of our team is just building go
just go code um I'll share with you a
bit about where we are in our our Tech
stack so so the IBC like client which
was funded you know by a grant from from
the interchain foundation that's
completed and now it's headed to an
audit at halborn and that should be done
um basically around April 1 um that is
going to be in test so we're going to be
in test net we're in testet now and uh
because we're not doing a public sale
for compliance side reasons we have a
lot more tokens to give out to people um
to incentivize users to bridge assets
from Cosmos or polka dot or binance
um any chain that's connected to IBC
we're happy to give out tokens to our
our test Nets open people can go to the
website and sign up um and we're going
to be in testet for a while to encourage
users um to bridge assets over and and
interact with like basically we're
throwing a party like between Cosmos and
Avalanche and polka dot users and as
many users as we can get so that they
all kind of meet each other and like the
dexes start talking natively to each
other so osmosis assets will be natively
on the the Avalanche Trader Joe decks or
the Pengalin decks or um you know the
validator protocols like the liquid
staking validator protocols like goo
pool on Avalanche um and and stride on
Cosmos will start talking to each other
natively and so this is kind of like a
party and we're just uh we're
encouraging users to to to to throw the
party and we're we're we're giving them
tokens to do that yeah you mentioned you
kind of like threw a dog whistle out
there that I want to just double down on
and and you brought up ether so just to
like right now Landslide is in testet
and you know the on contracts are still
under audit but etherman is kind of like
an OG project that was trying to create
like a light client that can make it
easier to operate between the evm and
the cosmos worlds so I might have gotten
it wrong I'm not a I'm not a Dev so
could you just kind of like quick Eli
five what ether mint is so that the
folks listening to this can kind of just
get a sense of the weight that is thrown
around when you're an OG building on
that project and now building something
like this sure um well it means that our
our CTO has been involved in the Tex
Tech for a really long time um since
2018 and if if people are clamoring for
the trust but verify we can provide our
uh our our PRS if someone wants to
figure out if we're telling the truth
about that um so what that OS is
basically like you know in its word it's
like ether and and Cosmos and so what
it's trying to they they are an evm so
so like they brought the ethereum
virtual machine into Cosmos they aren't
bridging assets per se um I they might
actually I might be speaking out of turn
but as far as I understand they weren't
bridging assets from ether to Cosmos
because there isn't a BRI there isn't
there hasn't been an ethereum to Cosmos
like client um until basically now like
polymer is working on it Union is
working on a ZK version and and and
composable building an etherite client
as well so that means is OS is like The
Ether Cosmos uh connect in terms of
virtual machines yeah that's cool um you
mentioned that your team is building a
lot of uh Solutions in go um just
curious to hear why you guys chose go
Lang um what are the opportunities and
constraints that coding in that language
offers yeah so go um is a coding
language that Google built and is open
source and it's used all over the
blockchain stack so when people say the
word GE
G that stands for go e meaning that's
like the eth a packet basically that
runs on go um there's also um Avalanche
go had there's a big big section of the
Avalanche stack is written in go um and
IBC go and
so go as a um a lower level um like
backend programming language is really
really fast and scalable and it's also
kind of standardized across different
blockchain Stacks so the the reason we
we we opted for that is because it's
used everywhere and it's it's sort of
the initial you know it's it's like kind
of like English it's used everywhere on
on the on the clients is it is it super
composable or is it uh you know in in
the sense that you can copy and paste or
is it just like you've seen this in
another ecosystem so you kind of have an
idea how to build it and it's much
easier to build from scratch yeah it's
composable absolutely cool um we at at
the risk of opening a can of worms uh we
spoke earlier about regulations and the
impact that Regional regulations can
have on Builders and blockchain networks
within a geographic durur jurisdiction
so I am curious to hear a little bit
about landslides perspective on
permissioned and permissionless chains
and um maybe you guys might even have uh
a set of Cl s that ask you to build out
permissioned chains for them so could
you maybe just expound a little bit on
the team's philosophy between these two
chains and maybe also share some
highlevel examples if you do have
clients that are seeking these
permission um solutions from your team
sure um great question so permissioned
um is what got us into the problems that
we're in now and that argument is
correct like we don't like that but
Celsius FTX these type of things gets us
into the permission problem because if
it's not your keys it's not your coins
and that just opens a big door to the
insanity on the other hand
permissionless like like Luna Tera
collaps that was permissionless and it
was a permissionless uh scam essentially
that was hard to unravel for the average
person so on both sides people got sham
right it doesn't matter if you were
permissioned or permissionless if you
can spin up garbage or if you can steal
people's keys and so that you know the
landscape is that those those pieces of
reality are hard to swallow on the other
hand from a regulatory perspective you
have to have permissioned nodes you have
to have you you just you're just not
going to run a business on that like you
can't so if if if you exist in the US
and you have a financial Mand
like they have a gun to your head saying
you have to do this if you don't do this
we're going to find you and put you in
jail it's a real simple game there so
whatever the government is telling the
institutions you have to run a purple
node you have then if you're if they're
telling you that you have to run a
purple note it doesn't matter what you
what ethics you have about it what your
personal opinion is you have to do that
um so you know the people that will win
that battle are those who can provide
the infrastructure to do that we think
that's IBC we think that's Avalanche um
that's sort of our thesis about it um
the people who have the institutional
clients are really on the BD side of of
aval labs they are the ones who doing
Fidelity tro Price City Bank JP Morgan
and then all the host of video games on
the top of that right like SK planet um
shrapnel uh um there there's a there's a
massive list of them um I know I'm
missing a big one there's a big
Ukrainian Studio a game studio um Off
the Grid thank you that that's coming
out that's that's like obviously a
brilliant game but the games don't want
to um get their traffic and their users
mixed up with permission with
permissionless chains they just it's
naive to think that over time it just
won't work so um yeah the big clients
I'd say aval Labs is doing a great job
of closing um if you look on the cosmo
side dydx is a massive client that has
op sourced all their work uh to give you
an idea in the last 7 days dydx has
processed $33 million um you can see
that on map of zones um Noble the noble
team is building a great uh partnership
with circle and usdc and in the last
seven days Nobles process $64 million so
um and then there are some like there
are other groups inside of Cosmos ment
uh so like a mill. they're they're one
that's building with a host of
institutional clients and you can see
them on their website so the way that we
help out institutional clients is we in
some sense we can just build the lower
level tcpip protocol for them to build
on and then when people start using it
we'll will'll benefit from that so at
the beginning of the conversation I
asked you how defi can the resiliency in
defi can be improved by these
interoperability protocols connecting
different EOS systems but now after what
I just heard you say I'm wondering is
trafi and are these new games that are
that are leveraging digital assets are
these ecosystems actually going to
become strengthened and emboldened by
interoperability protocols yep that's a
good that's a great question uh Dylan so
I spoke to some it depends on the game
and it depends on the company so if
you're a company like I know Off the
Grid they want to keep their their nfts
um on their own chain and they want to
control the validators that said um they
would be open to ideas getting new users
if those nfts were transferable into
stargaze on on Cosmos or some of the
other nft projects via IBC they're open
to that they just want to at the same
time maintain um their control of their
validators because they're you know a
corporation um that said there's an
IBC uh function called a solo machine
which is like perfect for Central Bank
digital currency cbdcs to launch and
also if you you can control basically
everything there it's like a solo
machine and but without the connections
to other IBC channels like like
Avalanche or Cosmos it becomes less
useful so you know the question is how
do these assets interact over time
they're going to interact over time if
there's the channel there and the Le
mandate so you know these look like
these institutions are just like older
versions of us like more conservative
versions of us who have a different
mandate than us but they all see the
writing on the wall right like the game
is like there's no other Casino in town
right you can't you can't go and get
blood from a stone in the stock market
if you want to get crazy returns there's
a certain section of the market you can
do that and that's called crypto like
you can get your face ripped off or you
can like you know verify and be very
conservative and and do very little like
bitcoiners are great at this long-term
Bitcoin holders are just like you know
great at that they they view everything
else as a risk and they just do this one
thing um so you know what does defi look
like long term you're going to have both
permissioned and permissionless and you
just need the pipes to build that and we
hope that's IBC and um yeah we hope
that's Avalanche you mentioned that
you're working with uh Financial
institutions and I'm sure that the
conversations on theol sorry so we're
not directly honestly we don't we don't
have them in our in our Rolodex like um
yeah aval lab's Business Development
does and if you want to take a look
shout out to Morgan ketky U John Woo um
and the entire BD team at aval labs they
do a massive job about reaching out to
institutions the ICF interchain
Foundation at Cosmos also does a really
good job of of ing out to institutions
um we're we've been working on um like a
building a Consortium of IBC um IBC
enabled chains um and and so that
Consortium could be of help to
institutions like providing education a
lot like R3 Corda did their their reach
out so we're putting together that as
well everyone's kind of like where is IB
like what is what is IBC doing and so
there's like there's obviously some
education to reach out to do um yeah but
you know the the rubbing elbows isn't
really native to to Landslide perfect um
then I guess I'll just pivot a little
bit uh you and your team are are part of
the interchain builders program so can
you just expand a little bit on what
that is is it just like a aggregation of
builders in IBC land or is it more of
kind of a top- Down focused sort of
strategy from uh the interchain
foundation oh great great question man
there there are this is a great
interview man you've really done your
homework and I appreciate your your your
diligence on this um so the interchain
builders program we were selected as a
Q3 participant you can you can Google
the interchain builders program it's um
it's free to enter you basically apply
and you know you get added to a group of
similar Builders um who are building in
the interchain with interchain is mostly
been focused on Cosmos but that's
expanding um obviously as IBC goes out
so it's been a community from the ICF
and also other web 3 business owners who
can share diligence reports on uh you
know investors or deal flow in terms of
uh you know your fund raise PE the the
team there um shout out to gnome and
Steph sprins at uh at the ICF they've
done enous help helping uh startups like
with their go to market strategy with
feedback on their on their Tech with
feedback on you know networking a lot
just a lot of the stuff in Cosmos is
really and and and web 3 is really who
you know and and you know getting a
community of people that you can trust
um you know trust but verify is is also
really valuable so the Builder program
is is basically been like a small
version of a like a cohort you know they
help you with with some of the basics
yeah that's really cool um something
else that I was kind of curious to hear
a little bit more and and what you were
saying in your your previous response to
my question um is what are are there any
kind of like ways that you and your team
have contributed to either IBC land or
Avalanche land using lessons that you
learned about building this quote
unquote bridge between the two maybe
like you found a defunct piece of code
that because you were trying to connect
IBC to to a subnet that this is now
something that you and your team were
able to raise the flag of awareness on
and state hey this is a new issue that
we found because we're doing this unique
type of of bridging two ecosystems have
there been any examples of kind of like
things you've learned about the other
chain because you've been connecting
another chain to it great question dude
yeah you got some good questions I
usually don't say that but uh you have
some good questions um so we didn't find
any there there were no like bugs
undisclosed bugs that we didn't report
and there were there was never a you
know up the chain of command for that
never happen um usually like we've been
working on this on the light client
basically all year so and here's where I
get to shout out to the Strange Love
team Strange Love is one of the um sort
of stewards of the cosmos space and
they've been helping us all year um
shout out to Jack samplin and Andrew and
Alex on their team there um they've been
enormously helpful to us from the cosmo
side um and explaining um how IBC go and
how the Rel layers function um so we've
had weekly standups with them and and
from the aval lab side um their their
team Lucian and and Stephen in
particular and and Pat Patrick o Grady
have been enormously helpful um
communicating between those two
languages that said the the interesting
thing we didn't find a bug but we we've
solved sort of an intractable issue
which other teams have tried to solve
which was how do you communicate between
how do you make tenderman communicate to
Avalanche consensus because they're two
different consensus algorithms and we've
solved how to do that within the IBC
like client and we can we can get into a
tender discussion and and and I like I
can clearly sort of explain the
Avalanche consensus and to to to
listeners if You' like oh I mean uh I'm
a big fan of tender uh the ecosystem
I've been in in and day out uses a bft
as well for its consensus mechanism um
so maybe you can share just maybe high
level a few key takeaways of avalanche's
I guess delegated proof of stake
consensus mechanism and then also uh how
that communicates with tenderman bft
great okay so um Avalanche doesn't use
dpos delegated proof of stake it it's
not a in in per per se as the term um so
sort of stepping back when we think
about consensus um tender I should I say
when you think about consensus you're
like in a stadium and you're trying to
like establish like blue or red and
you're and you're trying to poll people
in the stadium blue or red and um in
tenderman all of the people in the
stadium have to talk to each other
everybody in the stadium has to
literally talk to every other single
person in the stadium to determine blue
or red and that's why in the cosmos
white paper you can look at it and you
could see that that the atom validators
are capped at 300 hard cap 300 in the
cosmos white paper that's a downstream
effect of the tender consensus algorithm
the the method that they use to
determine red or blue in avalanche it's
it's different not every person has to
talk to every other person a single
person asks like five people for example
red or blue and then that person those
five people ask another five people and
those five people ask another five
people so you're still polling the
stadium you're just not you personally
don't have to ask a thousand people red
or blue so you're still achieving
consensus around the decision you just
don't have to do you don't run into this
problem now the problem in in
colloquially in the industry is called
the N squared problem and this is and as
validators as you get more and more
validators basically people
participating in the network that
problem becomes
it's a it's a quadratic problem it
becomes a larger problem faster so
Avalanche doesn't have this it it's a
subsampling so you sample a small
section of the the the stadium and say
hey man red or blue um so yeah that that
that's how that works and then in in
terms of how the how that works in in in
the like client itself um it's uh I I
would say a simple explanation is
waiting for the header on the Block to
be relayed on like on Cosmos to be
relayed into Avalanche and waiting for
that and to to confirm on the light
client side that's the simple
explanation so um we're kind of getting
near the end of our conversation um I
kind of want to sure we can extend we
can extend man I'm happy to you know I
know you are we could also probably do
multiple of these episodes yeah um and
it would be a great time but um I'm just
kind of curious to hear let's say six
months from now uh a re Landslide is now
live on on both main Nets how will I as
a retail user what are some use cases
that I can expect to um interact with
Landslide great great question um our
success will be if people don't know
they're using Landslide that's the
biggest success it's not another
interface like our ideal scenario is
that someone wants to send osmo tokens
on osmosis
to osmo on Trader Joe in a single Swap
and Landslide tokens are just abstracted
from that so that when that transaction
happens they send tokens from osmosis
and they show an intent in the
transaction which is you know a ux
that's going to be on on osmosis I want
to swap this on osmosis on avalanch you
know that whole chain of events just
happens and they don't think about me
they don't think about Landslide they
just think about the swap so yeah that's
I mean we have there's some steps we
have to take to get there but but the
end stage is is that we don't want to
build a competitor to the dexes we don't
want to build app competitors we just
want to you know we want to build these
pipe systems so that the pipes work and
that these existing apps can start
communicating yeah and you mentioned a
few times um a potential Landslide token
that folks can go out and earn um and be
rewarded for participating in test net
uh to me it sounds like the landslide
token will be used to kind of maybe uh
vote for validators on either Network
and also maybe even be used to migrate
between IBC and sub and Avalanche subnet
land uh maybe I'm in incorrect or a
misunderstanding can you just share a
little bit more about what the use cases
and the uses for the landslide token
will be sure okay so great great
question again well done sir um okay so
when you transfer tokens between IBC
zones you don't assume that the Bri the
bridge anything about the bridge IBC is
just there's no assumption you make you
just trust you're just trusting that IBC
functions however you are trusting that
the Target and the source chain are
valid so if if osmosis somehow gets
malicious and gets attacked or Landslide
like gets attacked so you have to use
the tokens the landslide tokens to keep
the the the Target or the source chain
on the Avalanche side safe so the ideal
scenario is that landside becomes
permissionless so that anybody can
validate it it should not be you you
don't need to kyc there's that's not
involved at all um and avalanch is also
spinning up a like sort of pay as you go
validator and subnet only validators so
what this means for Cosmos validators or
uh polka dot validators or Bitcoin
validators
um is that these these Economic Security
guarantees can be transferred between
subnets and transferred between chains
sorry I know I think my audio just went
out there just to reiterate that um each
each blockchain has its own validator
set and it's keeping the chain secure we
see this in Cosmos sort of evolving into
providing security for other chains so
it's like if your house is secure you
can provide your your security system to
another house um and this is this is uh
this is called sort of mesh security and
and um and and mesh security is kind of
expanding you can see this in bab in the
Babylon chain big shout out to their
team they're providing Bitcoin staking
security basically to Cosmos so that
means they're they're allowing uh
Bitcoin stakers in a permissionless
contract to earn fees on other networks
so very cool so is it safe to say that
Landslide will be kind of its own
security provider then for for all the
chains that it interacts with yeah so so
so the landside validators will provide
Economic Security to to Landslide and
then the next step is Cosmos validators
will provide security to Landslide
Bitcoin Bitcoin people through Babylon
will provide security to Landslide um so
that that's how that will work that so
Landslide tokens keep Landslide safe
alongside you know obviously the
consensus and um and and and and up time
of the validators um there is no
slashing as you can see in Cosmos
there's there's slashing for validators
you don't need to do that we're we're
opted not to do that um it's a whole
other rabbit hole but there's no
slashing that takes place there just you
just don't collect the rewards um so
yeah the short answer to your question
is yes we're we're offering users tokens
for performing exercises like you know
Bridge Noble to Avalanche and back you
know Bridge o from Avalanche to back
like spin up a permissionless chainlet
on Saga and bridge that on on on
Avalanche um build a generalized
abstraction layer on burnt and and like
and bridge that to Avalanche um Bridge
tokens from composable like Bridge polka
dot tokens from kusama from composable
into Avalanche and back so this is just
like getting people into the Monopoly
game of of how the the the players and
the moves work awesome and um you guys
mentioned that your contracts are under
audit right now uh due to be back in
April uh so I'm assuming maybe when
mainnet is probably sometime middle of
next year yep uh if if I'm right let me
know if not what else is on on the road
map yeah great great question so um
halborn is auditing our IBC like client
Oak is auditing Oak security shout out
to them they're a big cos
Cosmos focused security firm they're
they're auditing our Cosmos client our
Cosmos VM our kmw VM um we also have an
evm um and so all of these pieces are
being audited but they're as long as
they're in testnet they're they're
considered safe and uh that you know the
that's the other piece of paying paying
people in in the tokens is that they're
going to be able to perform some
feedback for us on those packages so
yeah main net is like you know probably
April May somewhere around there if if
the bull run keeps running you know and
more IBC chains keep running on uh
turning on onto Main net we'll extend
the incentivized test net to a little
further cool and uh if someone is
listening to this and they're interested
in testing out Landslide where should we
send the listeners yeah
landslide.com uh Nathan this was a super
fun conversation um I'm a I I've been
playing around in the cosmos ecosystem
for a handful of years now and it was
really cool to hear um the lessons learn
that that you team your team is bringing
from uh building in both IBC and and
avalanch land um and also really cool to
hear just the Cornell ties and how you
ended up in both of these ecosystems so
I want to thank you so much for for
taking the time to come join us on the
smart economy podcast today it was a
fascinating conversation Dylan I
appreciate your time and your your
diligence and preparation sir well done
I appreciate it well hopefully uh
there's still enough time today for you
to uh do a little surfing oh yeah cheers
brother well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was
fascinating to hear about the connection
to Cornell that both the founders in
avalanche and Cosmos have and that
Nathan seemed like he was poised to be
in the right place at the right time it
was also really interesting to learn
more about the strengths that an
avalanche Cosmos bridged landscape can
yield and I really enjoyed learning
about the differences and similarities
between the two consensus mechanisms for
both networks head over to
landslide.com podcast head over to
smarte economy podcast.com and please
don't hesitate to rate and review any of
these episodes if you've enjoyed
listening to them the more folks that
rate and review the more we get to be
put into other people's ears and eyes
and of course if you're a neot toen
holder please consider voting for Neo
news today as your Neo Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since 2017 and
we'll continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council income directly
back into ecosystem growth initiatives
with all that said thank you so much for
taking the time to listen to the smart
economy podcast and we look forward to
catching you next
time